seaton had come to New Mexico as a hard
gun to do a dirty job expecting to stay
for a couple of weeks but Lobo continued
to elude him and as the week stretched
into months the untamed beauty of the
land began to cast its spell he was
falling in love with the West
he was also learning of the old days
when the wild game abounded and the
wilderness was unspoiled I can usually
reckon on seeing a dozen or more
pronghorn on the plains
everyone says that these bands are
nothing compared with the huge herds of
days gone by this land is vast but
beyond this horizons America is busy
growing like an ugly overfed brat too
healthy to slow down too young and
ambitious to care about what it destroys
along the way in the Caramba Seaton had
plenty of time to think about America's
dwindling wildlife only a few years
earlier there had still been Buffalo on
the plains one of the Cowboys saw a
small herd not far from here in 88 just
five winters back these would have been
the very last survivors in the entire
southwest
[Music]
for tens of thousands of years wolves
had survived by hunting one of North
America's most formidable prey species
they're pitted their wits against the
sheer size and ferocity of the Buffalo
this required teamwork it was little
wonder that wolves had evolved into such
highly intelligent animals with intimate
family bonds
after the buffalo cow was a piece of
cake
the wolf problem clearly is something
that we have created first we
annihilated the great herds of Buffalo
that the wolf's depended on for food and
we filled the prairies with our
defenseless cattle I am told that Lobos
band alone kills a cow every day
[Music]
Lobos pack could slice through livestock
like a knife through butter
wolves probably could have killed as
much livestock as Seaton described the
livestock was vulnerable and helpless we
we bred their natural defenses out of
them and wolves are intelligent and they
had figured that out
and so wolves have a mentality really of
kill everything you can